Joe Biden has said he's outraged and
heartbroken by the deaths of seven
International Aid workers in Gaza they
were killed in an Israeli air strike now
in a highly critical statement the
president said Israel was not doing
enough to protect civilians three
British men John Chapman James Henderson
and James Kirby were among those killed
when a convoy carrying staff from World
Central Kitchen was hit on Monday the
charity released pictures of the aid
workers overnight Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu said the
strike was unintended and vowed to
investigate our reporter graem Satchel
has
more the pictures tell their own
devastating Story the team from the
charity World Central Kitchen was
traveling in a convoy of three cars you
can clearly see their logo each car was
hit in what looks like a Precision
targeted attack the charity has now paid
tribute to the seven workers who lost
their lives including three British
Nationals 57-year-old John Chapman who
is believed to have served in the Royal
Marines was working for the charity as a
security advisor James Henderson who was
33 is also understood to have served in
the Marines James Kirby was 47 and
another armed forces veteran all three
men were trying to protect their
colleagues the charity described them as
Heroes these seven beautiful souls were
killed by the Israel Defense Forces
their smiles laughter and voices are
forever embedded in in our memories we
are reeling from our loss the world's
loss World Central Kitchen was providing
vital food Aid in Gaza supplying
millions of meals the consequences of
the attack will be felt here first the
charity has paused its operations
putting immediate stress on an already
desperate situation that's going to put
civilians at risk at greater risk of
famine people are already starving to
death um and what we really need now is
for a to get in quickly and to be able
to be distributed
safely the Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said the attack was
tragic and then said this happens in war
overnight the head of the Israeli Army
was far more conciliatory we are sorry
for the unintentional harm to the
members of
wck we share in the grief of their
families as well as the entire world
Central Kitchen organization from the
bottom of our
hearts despite that apology there has
been Global condemnation America
described the attack as an outrage
Britain said the deaths were completely
unacceptable Australia has demanded
accountability in Jerusalem more
protests on the street as Israelis
demand the safe return of their
hostages pressure is growing at home and
abroad but so far the Israeli government
has been impervious to calls for a
ceasefire and is determined to continue
its fight against Hamas graah Satchel
BBC
News well Tess angram is a UNICEF
spokeswoman and is temporally based in
Gaza it's appalling that these Brave
colleagues while just trying to H people
in Gaza have been killed so it certainly
have had an impact here on all of us in
the Gaza Strip who are still reeling
from the news of of losing these
colleagues in terms of operations world
kitchen plays such a pivotal role in
providing food to the people of Gaza
they' already provided millions of meals
over the last few months so them taking
this very understandable pause will
certainly have an impact on the people
of Gaza who are already on the brink of
famine and just we cannot afford to not
continue to to push forward and provide
them with the food that they so
desperately need well let's speak to our
Middle East correspondent in Jerusalem
your land Nel y land it's good to have
you
what more do we know around the
circumstances of the strike at this
point I mean the Israeli military says
it's still investigating but we've had
the chief of staff coming out saying
that this uh was a mistake that followed
a misidentification at night um he said
during a war in very complex conditions
uh the Israeli Prime Minister previously
said this does happen in war time um but
you have at the same time some Israeli
media reports looking more deeply into
what went wrong here and one in haret
this morning is quoting um unnamed Army
sources as basically saying that this is
also a result of poor discipline as a
result of soldiers and officers who are
not um following rules and orders
properly in the field and your land what
has been the reaction so far from allies
especially ones who've had Nationals
killed in the
strike
I mean there's been a huge International
criticism of both how Israel is um
conducting this war but also uh really
this has put a spotlight on the
situation for Aid workers and the very
very difficult conditions and dangerous
conditions that they have been working
under and I think there is now going to
be um a kind of real effort to try to
get Israel to put new mechanisms in
place uh that will make it safer for Aid
workers um to get back to work properly
uh in Gaza and to be able to do what
they have to do uh to to distribute much
needed Aid across the Gaza Strip all
right yolan thanks so much for that
update and if you want to learn more
about the aid workers who were killed in
that strike there is more on our website
and our app